How important is health insurance in a person's life
?  Very few people
put health insurance in the category of necessity.  Almost everyone thinks
that nothing can happen to me.
If you feel that you do
not need insurance due to your age.  This I think is your illusion
and this is a very wrong thinking.  There can be no more
needy product than this.
This solution can keep such critical
expenses at a time whenever you are
emotionally very suffering.  You don't understand
what is happening.  If the host does
not have health insurance, your problems may increase further.
Take separate insurance for your parents.  It is important for everyone to
understand that insurance at the personal level
irrespective of your group insurance should still be
taken.  There is no confusion.  And
remember one more thing that once you
take personal insurance at a young age.  You have to be
clear as an insurance company.  He
cannot deny your renewal.  It is a
compulsory unavailability object which is there
with a company but normally health
insurance and a fundamental is a touch and
feel product which you find right, you
take your decision on that, consultant not becomes
your closest panel itself is playing a very
critical role to guide me
Hello everyone today we are welcoming Mr.
Sanjeev Mantri MD & CEO of ICI from
load its privilege for us to have such
respected personality with us most welcome
to Grofin Sir how important is health insurance in a person's
life if it is
told in a very simple way there are so many things which are
optional in life which people
consider as a need and the necessity is made
optional according to me the inflation of health which is the
overall expenditure
in the hospital while we all believe that
this does not happen and we feel that there will be no
problem.  When there is an
impact on health.  I will tell you by giving an example.
If a man is
going in a car.  He hits the car
and the car gets impacted.
Ok?  So the car is damaged.  If a
person is sitting in the same car.
He gets hurt.  First of all any
person will look at himself.  He will say, hey,
what happened?  That damage to the car will
not even be visible.  When will
he see the damage to the car?  So when he saw that I was fine,
he understood the problem with the car.  So it is
very important to understand that for all of us, the
priority is to keep our health in
good shape and the reality is and whichever age
group you are, whichever section you
belong to, it is very important that the thing that is
most important now is that health is wealth and the amount of compromise
people make on its protection,
according to me there can be no
more needed product than this
solution which can keep such
critical expenses at a time when anyway you are
emotionally suffering, you are
struggling, you are not able to understand
what is happening and if there is
no health insurance at that time then your problem
can increase further, if they have health insurance from any company, should we take
separate health insurance for the family, right now
we regularly see that I have
company insurance but in all our
financial planning we say that you should have personal insurance
with a basic or some important rider.
So
how important is it?  According to me, there is no connection between the
insurance that is available from the company and the personal
insurance.
Today I also have insurance from my company.
But I'm not underwritten.
People didn't check anything about me.  It
comes at the group level when I lose
my job and by the time I
retire at the age of 60 or 58
and I take insurance at that time, I may be suffering from
various diseases like blood pressure, diabetes
and it is possible that I may
not have made a single claim for 20, 25, 30 years and when
I go to take insurance at that time, the
insurance companies will
not hesitate in giving me insurance, the reason is very simple
because with some pre-existing diseases, your
insurance can become expensive and
actually your risk can
also be denied to you in underwriting.  It is
important for everyone to understand that insurance at the
personal level is irrespective of group
insurance, but there is no
confusion.  And remember one more thing that once
you take personal insurance at a young
age.  You have to be clear as an
insurance company cannot deny your renewal.  There it is
a compulsory
renewability option which is there with the
company they will never deny you renewal.  So it becomes
your lifetime.  Another
thing I would
like to highlight is how much insurance should you
take?  Normally, if you look at it,
you will say, brother, I have never received a bill more than Rs 5 lakh or Rs 10 lakh.  Nothing
ever happens.
But there is medical
inflation.  Just think about
how many people I have met when you buy a car.  He
drives a car worth Rs 50 lakh and insures himself for Rs
5 lakh.  Correct.  Imagine that
you have given even less importance to your own personal health.
How can this be possible?  You
must see the value of a set which you are
driving.  The value of your home and
what your standard of living is proportionately.  By
taking a small amount under insurance, you insure after looking at today's billing.
But the insurance that a
person takes, he takes it for his lifetime.
And in that lifetime winnability also, the
option that comes is that you must take a cover which should be of the
appropriate level that can give you comfort.
What more can be said in this, there is
no benefit in saving Rs 2000-500 by pinching pennies and being stingy.  So when we buy health insurance.
Currently, many insurance companies in the market
offer different varieties of products.  Some
keep the name different, some keep the rider different.
So what should we keep in mind to choose the right one
?  See,
this is a very personal thing for every person.
I may have a requirement in health insurance.
Someone has some requirement.  It could be
different things.  One fundamental
is basic cover.  Riders There are different types
of riders available in the market.  If I
think I should not be my pre
existing.  Cover it right now.
You can also avail premium option.   There is
a cooling period.  There
is also a 30 day option.  You can get it fast tracked.
Look at different types.  There
is a combination of how much you can afford.
Ok?  And how much you know depends on how widely
you are able to think about your
requirements and very few people
put health insurance in the category of necessity.  Almost everyone
thinks that nothing can happen to me.
You see, if
I were 26 years old, I mean today I have almost
reached double that, but when I was 26
years old, if someone had asked me to take out
health insurance from my earnings and give it to me,
I would have said what difference does it make, but you
think that at that time I used to do more such work in
which I took risks, right, I could do more
sports activities, I was
ready to climb more mountains, I have the
risk ability, so an accident is bound to happen
and if an accident happens, then I can be
admitted to the hospital and I can also get injured in a car accident.
Meaning, something or the other can happen somewhere.
And then it can create
much more damage financially at that time.  Now
maybe the affordability is better.  Reserve Is
What It Was There.  So this rider or
whatever it is in health insurance, the
right thing is to use a consultant who can guide you as a consultant
whether the product is right or not, that is also the
right way, you can go to many other places also, you
get the information everywhere on the website, but
normally health insurance and a fundamental is
a touch and feel product where a customer
meets the agent or partner at least three to four times and is told to take this or like anything else,
if you want to buy a car,
today so many options are available in every category,
then you decide that you want to take this,
take your decision on the one which you feel is right, but please start this journey of health insurance,
if you think that due to your age or youth, you do
not need insurance, I think this is your illusion
and this is a very wrong thinking.  Okay, you are right
that people take health insurance for tax saving or due to the
digital awareness they have today.
Generally, we
also say today that if
you have critical illness or accidental
insurance, then it is also a must. So, what do you
think is the importance of
critical illness and
accidental insurance along with health insurance?
So look,
this is a very good question.  I wouldn't want to scare.
I wouldn't want to sound negative either.
But as life and as luck would have it rather
you have seen that the
incidence of critical illnesses, cancer, heart
attacks, all of that are increasing.  And
even in young age, nowadays we hear a lot that
in late 20s and 30s, someone gets different types
of diseases.  There is more to do
with lifestyle, the way we live, the stress that
we know how to live with.
This decision of taking a critical illness is driven by
again what you want to do. God forbid,
if you get cancer, it is a very
expensive disease, it is not a poor match
disease, right, there is significant expense that comes,
this benefit is constructed,
in this you get a lump sum amount from the company whichever company you
choose,
and that too at a time when
you are already very stressed.  This
money comes very handy.  Lots of
people take bank loans.
And they know that because of me a
huge burden can fall on the family.  They
also take a critical illness product along with it.
At least 100 critical illnesses are
covered under this.  And it can help a lot.
And this product is not that expensive either.
You can also get it for a long tenor.
You can take this product for up to 5 years.  According to
me, if you are able to think
in a logical manner, you must have it
in two categories. I would like to say that you must take
indemnity hospitalization
in the first category. You should not even think twice
and you must take it away.
After that, as you feel appropriate,
you can also take treatment for critical illness,
but it is not that you
take critical illness but not hospitalization
because the reality is that for all, no
survival rates are improving.   There is enough
and more treatment available which increases
the span of your life.  But
hospitalizations are still increasing.
Look at the people earlier, you did not have to go to the hospital for malaria.
Now in dengue, the
severity of all these is increasing and you get
hospitalized.  So
take the order indemnity and if you have
funds available and you are smart enough.
I would suggest that you get critical illness
also because it will be your shield.
This will tell you your pocket money.  So combine both together,
you will be much better and
you can also take Accidental Same Accidental.  So again
the order is like this that if an accident happens
then there is hospitalization.  If there is
hospitalization,
payment can be made from Indian Bank.  If you want to take accident
cover, accident in critical cases
in a well get combined together and if you are able to
afford an accident cover, it
is very cheap.  I mean, let me tell you a story.
A family was going for travel insurance.
There was an option that he
covered ₹00 for ₹900 and ₹1 lakh for ₹1200.   This
is an old story.  So I am
telling you about REET as per the old calculation.  He said
what will happen to us?
We are going to Egypt.  I will come back after visiting.   It's
honeymoon, I'm young.  Please give me the one worth ₹900.
S the luck would have it.  He
fell off a camel while riding it in Egypt.
Oh, and his vertebrae got compressed.
Back surgery had to be done.
Now his option was to stay in Egypt and get the
surgery done, which would require at least 15 days of
bed rest.  So he felt that it should
not be done there.  I have to come to Bombay and get it done.
Now if you want to come to Bombay, you have to arrange an air ambulance.
Correct because you
cannot come back to normal.  The
cost of air ambulance was Rs 60,000.  Oh ho, you took the cover
for ₹00, so how much extra was that expense for ₹
1200?  ₹300 of ₹00 is
not even close to three pounds.  But sometimes we all become
penny wise pound full at our own level.
So it is important that you
realize the risk that is associated with any
travel and any event that we end up in.
Look, we wake up every morning, go here, go there,
sit in the car, do so many things, it is
God's grace that we are my
last resort, it is not a problem but this we have to be
careful and see what to do,
so according to me all three categories
are important, but indemnity should not be yours
only but that of your family members
as it will compromise otherwise
your own cash flow in a very big way, so
I have a question related to that.  If the
age of the parents is between 55 to 60 years, then should they
depend only on the insurance company or if
they are pre-existing or health wise, then
they should take their own comprehensive
insurance.  Without even thinking twice,
take separate insurance for your parents.  That will seem a bit expensive.
Look,
we all take stress levels as we age.
Take our food and drink.  We're
going in one direction and that
direction will have challenges.  Ok?  I mean, they
say that everyone can have four or five diseases.
We don't know when it will happen and how it will happen.
And we also pray very hard that nothing happens to
anyone.  But the reality will happen.  The
cover for parents that
you have got from the company cannot serve the
purpose. You must ensure for the security of
their life and your own life that you
buy a separate cover for them. Under no circumstances, make the
mistake of
leaving them out of the group cover.  If you have
healthy parents and they can be covered
immediately, I would say
in the preference order, then they will come first, get
them covered first. It is because
of a probability scale. The probability of their health
deteriorating is higher for anyone. The
higher one should be
covered first because if the probability is higher, the
cost will also be higher, but naturally it will also
help you in the hour of need. Thank
you. The last question is,
how important is an advisor in a person's health insurance journey
?  I think it is very important to
see experts right now you all have seen
that nowadays all kinds of consultants are available
for your children.  What career do they want to pursue
?  Consultant is available from class 8th.  What
is the need?  The children cannot know.
How many exams are there these days?  How many
diagnostics are there?  So because of this he should
do this, he should do that.  Is it right for a child
who is still growing to undergo so many treatments?
His parents consult a
consultant to find out at such an
early stage
what is appropriate for your health, which solution will be
best for you. We all have our own
views but the consultant's view on
health becomes particularly wide.
When he comes, he looks at your lifestyle, looks at
your family, he is able to judge it
and he must have done
thousands of such cases, probably 400-500 cases before.
They know what is right.  So one thing is
you go and get something yourself.  I
say that is one way.  It's not that he isn't there.
But health in particular if someone is
able to advise you.  Consultant na becomes
your closest foot.
He Is Playing A Very Critical Role To
Guide You.
And according to me, in this category, if you
trust someone, trust his advice,
then you must ensure that
you take that person's help to derive
value and see that you are appropriately covered.
Or sometimes the difference is that
in any cover, the
premium is higher by Rs 5 lakh.  After that the
premium falls a lot.  Proponation
falls proportionately.  Some probability
falls.  Whether you buy it for five or 25, the
difference is very small.
But sometimes there is confusion in your mind
that should I save this?
It is like sometimes people in the car feel that
I have been in the car for 4 years but nothing has happened to me in the last 3 years.
I don't take zero depth.
Zero type costs more money.  But the
probability when you get the car gets hit.
This Chandi Wali consultant can
help you.  And but you must touch the
person hook to.
Thank you so much sir.
It is really valuable inputs.  There are many
small things which it seems
only the advisor can explain properly
and only through the family history or I mean medical
history we can probably give them a good solution
in insurance.
Absolutely and I think Abhijeet I must also put this because we are talking.
I am
so happy to meet you and goof in the family.
Ah the love and the you know the welcome that you gave
is really tremendous.
I mean I am supremely thrilled to be here
and thank you so much for being so
kind and being such a nice host.  Ah, I've
enjoyed interacting with you and your
team, and I'd like to say that. My best
wishes to you and your team, and I'm sure
the commitment and the energy that you display will go a long way, and we will see you
grow fit
and even bigger, both of us growing
together. Thank you so much, thank
you so much.
[Music]